[1.20] Release 1.20.0 (#292)
replicatedhq/kots.io: content/release-notes/1.20.0.md

---
date: 2020-10-06
linktitle: "1.20.0"
title: "1.20.0"

> kubernetes: "1.16, 1.17, and 1.18"

Reviewer: Can't we add 1.19 now that kURL is out? And if we remove 1.16, do we have to put a deprecation notice somewhere?

---

{{<features>}}
* Disconnected nodes can be deleted from the cluster management page of the console on embedded clusters.

> * [Collect](https://troubleshoot.sh/docs/collect/), [Analyze](https://troubleshoot.sh/docs/analyze/), and [SupportBundle](https://troubleshoot.sh/docs/support-bundle/collecting/) specs now support template functions.

Reviewer: We should mention somewhere that http endpoint is now gone, and maybe even explicitly say we're using a new in-cluster secret mechanism? Last bit might be TMI.

Reviewer: Ah, I see that mentioned below.

* Sequence, Cursor, ChannelName, VersionLabel, ReleaseNotes, and IsAirgap [template functions](/reference/template-functions/license-context/).
* Applications installed into airgapped instances can now be upgraded using [KOTS CLI](/kots-cli/upstream/) -- NEEDS DOC

> * Support for headless embedded cluster installs. -- NEED DOC

Reviewer: I don't think we really mean headless here. What have we used before? "automated, headless"? Maybe "unattended"?

> * Private images used by SupportBundle and Preflight [collectors](https://troubleshoot.sh/docs/collect/collectors/) are now automatically rewritten so they can be pulled in side the cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Private images used by SupportBundle and Preflight [collectors](https://troubleshoot.sh/docs/collect/collectors/) are now automatically rewritten so they can be pulled from inside the cluster.
```

{{</features>}}

{{<changes>}}

> * New [Version History](/kotsadm/updating/updating-kots-apps/#checking-for-updates) page design.

Reviewer: Likewise, updated design for app dashboard version card.

Reviewer 2: If there is an update we're showing latest available version.

> * Added reources limits and requests for Admin Console pods.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Added resource limits and requests for Admin Console pods.
```

* Admin Console's default port 8800 can be overwridden with `NODE_PORT` environment variable.

> * Port forwarding no longer uses the `app.k8s.io/v1beta1` Application spec and has been aligned with [documentaion](/vendor/config/dashboard-buttons/#provide-a-kots-application-spec).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Port forwarding no longer uses the `app.k8s.io/v1beta1` Application spec and has been aligned with [documentation](/vendor/config/dashboard-buttons/#provide-a-kots-application-spec).
```

> * [SupportBundle](https://troubleshoot.sh/docs/support-bundle/collecting/) and [Preflight](https://troubleshoot.sh/docs/preflight/introduction/) specs are no longer served on unauthenticated endpoints and instead are provided to [support-bundle and preflight binaries](https://troubleshoot.sh/docs/#installation) via secrets.

Reviewer: Can we link to docs about the secrets mechanism?

{{</changes>}}

{{<fixes>}}
* Airgap bundles can now only be installed if the app matches the license.
* Airgap bundle uploads via web UI no longer use a lot of memory.
* Fixed a bug that could cause Admin Console instance to become unusable if application installation failed.
* Fixed a bug that caused registry template functions to return no data.
* Fixed a bug that caused [HasLocalRegistry](reference/template-functions/config-context/#haslocalregistry) and [LocalRegistryHost](/reference/template-functions/config-context/#localregistryhost) to return incorrect information
* Fixed a bug that caused [GitOps](/kotsadm/gitops/single-app-workflows/) to fail to clone empty repo on initial setup.
* Fixed a troubleshoot bug where the result of a [secret collector](https://troubleshoot.sh/docs/collect/secret/) would have missing key.

> * Fixed a troubleshoot bug where a [run collector](https://troubleshoot.sh/docs/collect/run/) would hangs if Pod is in state ImagePullBackoff

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Fixed a troubleshoot bug where a [run collector](https://troubleshoot.sh/docs/collect/run/) would hang if Pod is in state ImagePullBackoff
```

* Fixed a troubleshoot bug that caused [ingress analyzer](https://troubleshoot.sh/docs/analyze/ingress/) to not produce a result.

> * Fixed a troubleshoot bug that caused [databased version analyzer](https://troubleshoot.sh/explore?tag=database) to fail on versions that aren't strictly semver conformant.

Reviewer 3: typo in `database`

> * Fixed a troubleshoot bug that caused [databased version analyzer](https://troubleshoot.sh/explore?tag=database) to fail on versions that aren't strictly semver conformant.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Fixed a troubleshoot bug that caused [database version analyzer](https://troubleshoot.sh/explore?tag=database) to fail on versions that aren't strictly semver conformant.
```

> * Fixed a troubleshoot bug that caused [distribution analyzer](https://troubleshoot.sh/docs/analyze/distribution/) to not recognize ibm and minikube distributions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Fixed a troubleshoot bug that caused [distribution analyzer](https://troubleshoot.sh/docs/analyze/distribution/) to not recognize IBM and minikube distributions.
```

---
date: 2020-10-06
linktitle: "1.20.0"
title: "1.20.0"
kubernetes: "1.17, 1.18, and 1.19"
---

{{<features>}}

> * Disconnected nodes can be deleted from the cluster management page of the console on embedded clusters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Ability to delete disconnected nodes from the cluster management page of the Admin Console on embedded clusters.
```

> * [Collect](https://troubleshoot.sh/docs/collect/), [Analyze](https://troubleshoot.sh/docs/analyze/), and [SupportBundle](https://troubleshoot.sh/docs/support-bundle/collecting/) specs now support template functions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Added template function support in [Collect](https://troubleshoot.sh/docs/collect/), [Analyze](https://troubleshoot.sh/docs/analyze/), and [SupportBundle](https://troubleshoot.sh/docs/support-bundle/collecting/) specs.
```

> * Sequence, Cursor, ChannelName, VersionLabel, ReleaseNotes, and IsAirgap [template functions](/reference/template-functions/license-context/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Added [template functions](/reference/template-functions/license-context/) for Sequence, Cursor, ChannelName, VersionLabel, ReleaseNotes, and IsAirgap.
```

> * Applications installed into airgapped instances can now be upgraded using [KOTS CLI](/kots-cli/upstream/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Added ability to upgrade applications installed into airgapped instances using [KOTS CLI](/kots-cli/upstream/).
```

> * Support for headless embedded cluster installs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Added support for automated (unattended, headless) application installs into an embedded cluster (both airgap and online).
```

> * Private images used by SupportBundle and Preflight [collectors](https://troubleshoot.sh/docs/collect/collectors/) are now automatically rewritten so they can be pulled from inside the cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Private images used by SupportBundle and Preflight [collectors](https://troubleshoot.sh/docs/collect/collectors/) are now automatically rewritten so they can be pulled from inside the cluster and are included in airgap bundles.
```

{{</features>}}

> {{<changes>}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{<changes>}}
* Added support for Kubernetes 1.19 and dropped support for Kubernetes 1.15.
```

> * New [Version History](/kotsadm/updating/updating-kots-apps/#checking-for-updates) page design.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Updated design of [Version History](/kotsadm/updating/updating-kots-apps/#checking-for-updates) page.
```

> * Likewise, updated design for app dashboard version card.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Updated design of the version card on the application dashboard.
```

>   - Latest available version version information is shown in the card.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Latest available version information is shown in the card.
```

  - Check for updates button is always available.
  - Current deployment status is included.
* Added resource limits and requests for Admin Console pods.

> * Admin Console's default port 8800 can be overwridden with `NODE_PORT` environment variable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Admin Console's will use `NODE_PORT` environment variable if set, instead of default 8800, e.g. from kURL configuration.
```

* Port forwarding no longer uses the `app.k8s.io/v1beta1` Application spec and has been aligned with [documentation](/vendor/config/dashboard-buttons/#provide-a-kots-application-spec).
* [SupportBundle](https://troubleshoot.sh/docs/support-bundle/collecting/) and [Preflight](https://troubleshoot.sh/docs/preflight/introduction/) specs are no longer served on unauthenticated endpoints and instead are provided to [support-bundle and preflight binaries](https://troubleshoot.sh/docs/#installation) via [secrets](/kotsadm/troubleshooting/support-bundle/).
{{</changes>}}

{{<fixes>}}
* Airgap bundles can now only be installed if the app matches the license.
* Airgap bundle uploads via web UI no longer use a lot of memory.

> * Fixed a bug that could cause Admin Console instance to become unusable if application installation failed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Fixed a bug that could cause Admin Console instance to become unusable if application installation failed under certain circumstances.
```

* Fixed a bug that caused registry template functions to return no data.

> * Fixed a bug that caused [HasLocalRegistry](reference/template-functions/config-context/#haslocalregistry) and [LocalRegistryHost](/reference/template-functions/config-context/#localregistryhost) to return incorrect information

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Fixed a bug that caused [HasLocalRegistry](reference/template-functions/config-context/#haslocalregistry) and [LocalRegistryHost](/reference/template-functions/config-context/#localregistryhost) to return incorrect information.
```

* Fixed a bug that caused [GitOps](/kotsadm/gitops/single-app-workflows/) to fail to clone empty repo on initial setup.
* Fixed a troubleshoot bug where the result of a [secret collector](https://troubleshoot.sh/docs/collect/secret/) would have missing key.

> * Fixed a troubleshoot bug where a [run collector](https://troubleshoot.sh/docs/collect/run/) would hang if Pod is in state ImagePullBackoff

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Fixed a troubleshoot bug where a [run collector](https://troubleshoot.sh/docs/collect/run/) would hang if Pod is in state ImagePullBackoff.
```

  - Check for updates button is always available.
  - Current deployment status is included.
* Added resource limits and requests for Admin Console pods.
* Admin Console's will use `NODE_PORT` environment variable if set (e.g. from kURL embedded clusters), instead of default 8800.
* Port forwarding no longer uses the `app.k8s.io/v1beta1` Application spec and has been aligned with [documentation](/vendor/config/dashboard-buttons/#provide-a-kots-application-spec).
* [SupportBundle](https://troubleshoot.sh/docs/support-bundle/collecting/) and [Preflight](https://troubleshoot.sh/docs/preflight/introduction/) specs are no longer served on unauthenticated endpoints and instead are provided to [support-bundle and preflight binaries](https://troubleshoot.sh/docs/#installation) via [secrets](/kotsadm/troubleshooting/support-bundle/).
* Version check now correctly reports current application version and adds information about Kots Admin Console version, Kubernetes version, app status, etc.
{{</changes>}}

{{<fixes>}}
* Airgap bundles can now only be installed if the app matches the license.
* Airgap bundle uploads via web UI no longer use a lot of memory.

> * Fixed a bug that caused airgap automated (unattended, headless) install to pull application from the internet.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* Fixed a bug that caused airgap automated (unattended, headless) installs to pull application from the internet.
```

* Fixed a bug that caused registry template functions to return no data.
* Fixed a bug that caused [HasLocalRegistry](reference/template-functions/config-context/#haslocalregistry) and [LocalRegistryHost](/reference/template-functions/config-context/#localregistryhost) to return incorrect information.
* Fixed a bug that caused [GitOps](/kotsadm/gitops/single-app-workflows/) to fail to clone empty repo on initial setup.
* Fixed a troubleshoot bug where the result of a [secret collector](https://troubleshoot.sh/docs/collect/secret/) would have missing key.
* Fixed a troubleshoot bug where a [run collector](https://troubleshoot.sh/docs/collect/run/) would hang if Pod is in state ImagePullBackoff.
* Fixed a troubleshoot bug that caused [ingress analyzer](https://troubleshoot.sh/docs/analyze/ingress/) to not produce a result.
* Fixed a troubleshoot bug that caused [database version analyzer](https://troubleshoot.sh/explore?tag=database) to fail on versions that aren't strictly semver conformant.
* Fixed a troubleshoot bug that caused [distribution analyzer](https://troubleshoot.sh/docs/analyze/distribution/) to not recognize IBM and minikube distributions.

> {{</fixes>}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Fixed reporting of "released on" date to use date of promotion to channel rather than date download.
{{</fixes>}}
```

---
date: 2020-10-06
linktitle: "1.20.0"
title: "1.20.0"
kubernetes: "1.17, 1.18, and 1.19"
---

{{<features>}}
* Added ability to delete disconnected nodes from the cluster management page of the Admin Console on embedded clusters.
* Added template function support in [Collect](https://troubleshoot.sh/docs/collect/), [Analyze](https://troubleshoot.sh/docs/analyze/), and [SupportBundle](https://troubleshoot.sh/docs/support-bundle/collecting/) specs.
* Added [template functions](/reference/template-functions/license-context/) for Sequence, Cursor, ChannelName, VersionLabel, ReleaseNotes, and IsAirgap.
* Added support for automated (unattended, headless) upgrading of applications installed into airgapped instances using [KOTS CLI](/kots-cli/upstream/).

> * Added support for automated (unattended, headless) installs of applications into an embedded cluster (both airgap and online) using [KOTS CLI](/kotsadm/installing/installing-embedded-cluster/#headless-installs/ ).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* Added support for automated (unattended, headless) installs of applications into an embedded cluster (both airgap and online) using [KOTS CLI](/kotsadm/installing/installing-embedded-cluster/#airgapped-installations ).
```

Reviewer: @divolgin The feature is for both airgap and online though, do you really want to link specifically to the airgapped instructions?

> * Added support for automated (unattended, headless) installs of applications into an embedded cluster (both airgap and online) using [KOTS CLI](/kotsadm/installing/installing-embedded-cluster/#headless-installs/ ).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* Added support for automated (unattended, headless) installs of applications into an embedded cluster (both airgap and online) using [KOTS CLI](/kotsadm/installing/installing-embedded-cluster/).
```

* Private images used by SupportBundle and Preflight [collectors](https://troubleshoot.sh/docs/collect/collectors/) are now automatically rewritten so they can be pulled from inside the cluster and are included in airgap bundles.
{{</features>}}

{{<changes>}}

> * Added support for Kubernetes 1.19 and dropped support for Kubernetes 1.15.

Reviewer 3: Is this right?  We support the current 3 versions, so didn't we drop support for 1.16?

Reviewer: Doh

> * Added support for Kubernetes 1.19 and dropped support for Kubernetes 1.15.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Added support for Kubernetes 1.19 and dropped support for Kubernetes 1.16.
```

* Updated design of [Version History](/kotsadm/updating/updating-kots-apps/#checking-for-updates) page.
* Updated design of the version card on the application dashboard.
  - Latest available version information is shown in the card.
  - Check for updates button is always available.
  - Current deployment status is included.
* Added resource limits and requests for Admin Console pods.
* Admin Console's will use `NODE_PORT` environment variable if set (e.g. from kURL embedded clusters), instead of default 8800.
* Port forwarding no longer uses the `app.k8s.io/v1beta1` Application spec and has been aligned with [documentation](/vendor/config/dashboard-buttons/#provide-a-kots-application-spec).
* [SupportBundle](https://troubleshoot.sh/docs/support-bundle/collecting/) and [Preflight](https://troubleshoot.sh/docs/preflight/introduction/) specs are no longer served on unauthenticated endpoints and instead are provided to [support-bundle and preflight binaries](https://troubleshoot.sh/docs/#installation) via [secrets](/kotsadm/troubleshooting/support-bundle/).

> * Version check now correctly reports current application version and adds information about Kots Admin Console version, Kubernetes version, app status, etc.

Reviewer 3: KOTS not Kots

> * Version check now correctly reports current application version and adds information about Kots Admin Console version, Kubernetes version, app status, etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Version check now correctly reports current application version and adds information about KOTS Admin Console version, Kubernetes version, app status, etc.
```
